NTCSS: RSupply, OOMA/OIMA, R-ADM, FSM3, ROM3
The Naval Tactical Command Support System (NTCSS) is a Management Information System (MIS) for management of ships, submarines, aviation squadrons, and intermediate maintenance activities (afloat and ashore). NTCSS provides the unit commanding officer and crew with the ability to manage maintenance of the ship/aircraft, parts inventory, finances, automated technical manuals and drawings, personnel information, and unit administrative information. NTCSS also provides the intermediate level maintenance activities with the ability to manage workload and resources involved in repair actions for aviation repairables and ships repair work packages.

NTCSS is an open architecture client –server system using a common server and operating environment with the tactical systems. Commercial Off-The Shelf (COTS) Personal Computers (PCs), laptops, network printers, peripherals and web based applications have been added for greater access and functionality

NTCSS is comprised of the following independently developed applications:

     Naval Aviation Logistics Command Management Information System Optimized Organizational Maintenance Activity (NALCOMIS OOMA), also referred to as OOMA, is used to support the logistics requirements of Navy and Marine Corps Aviation Organizational Maintenance Activities (OMA). New features include replacement or refresh of current hardware and an optimization of software. OOMA provides the Navy and Marine Corps with real-time maintenance functionality, flight time documentation, and aircraft CM.

     NALCOMIS Optimized Intermediate Maintenance Activities (NALCOMIS-OIMA) supports the Naval Aviation Maintenance Program (NAMP) and 3M functions for aircraft maintenance on aircraft carriers, amphibious assault ships, and Marine Corps Air Stations. OIMA provides aviation 3M personnel with the necessary resources to complete maintenance tasks. Using Special Qualifications (SQ), users are assigned the authority to perform specific tasks within the OIMA application. These tasks include adding assets to the system, ordering and issuing repair parts, and completing Maintenance Action Forms (MAF)

     Relational Supply (RSupply), also known as RSupply Force Level, is divided into several major subsystems and contains processes that identify the steps necessary to perform various tasks within each subsystem. RSupply combines site information, inventory, logistics, financial, and query functions into a real-time automated supply system designed for Fleet and Shore users. RSupply provides Navy personnel with quick, convenient access to the functions they perform most often. Those functions include: ordering supplies, maintaining financial records, and reconciling records with the shore infrastructure. RSupply II, also known as RSupply Unit Level, is a system of database tables, programs, and procedures designed to accomplish supply functions. The software is an upgrade of the SFM system used to perform supply transactions and financial reporting. The system was designed to run on Optimized NTCSS Unit Level platforms (Destroyers, Cruisers, Submarines, and Amphibious ships).

     Relational Administrative Data Management (R-ADM) automates manpower management functions, such as personnel qualifications, watch bills, station assignments, lifeboats, awards, decorations, producing the Advancement in Rate and Change of Rating Worksheet, managing authorized billets, recording service-related, personal, and family information, and maintaining the Division Officer’s Notebook. R-ADM provides numerous tools, utility programs, and formatted reports for each function. Organizational Maintenance Management System – Next Generation (OMMS-NG) supports 3M programs, policies, and procedures for Navy ships, submarines, and supporting shore sites. OMMS-NG offers online O-Level maintenance, CM, and logistics management. OMMS-NG provides Navy maintenance personnel with quick and convenient access to maintenance information. Personnel need this information to order equipment parts, which ensures warship readiness.

     Bar Code Supply Logistics Maintenance Automated Information System (BCS LMAIS) is a distance support initiative for optimally-manned platforms and supports moving the workload to ashore facilities. BCS LMAIS will be hosted on laptop servers afloat on Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) platforms. BCS LMAIS interfaces with NTCSS Patriot software to provide distance support capabilities to the Fleet. It is installed ashore at the Navy Enterprise Data Center (NEDC) to deliver products, services, and information to afloat platforms. The ultimate goal of this project is to implement a set of standardized processes and systems that optimally support forward-deployed units, both ashore and afloat.

     Beyond Capability of Maintenance –Interdiction (BCM-I) provides technicians and Depot Level (D-Level) artisans co-located at Fleet Readiness Centers (FRC) with the ability to document repair actions on a single work order, realizing significant savings in effecting Aviation Depot Level Repairs (AVDLR).

     Global Individual Component Repair List (G-ICRL), along with software version 800-02.03.34, will provide a single-source, enterprise solution updated continuously (near real-time) ensuring shipment of components to the correct FRC for follow-on repair actions. This software will be hosted on the Consolidated Afloat Networks and Enterprise Services (CANES) unclassified environment.

     Table of Allowance (TOA) will centralize and standardize the management of TOA material, automate the inventory management process, increase efficiency by reducing clerical errors, and improve material visibility.

     Personal Gear Issue (PGI) will automate inventory management and increase accountability through sub-custody management of end-use items from the organizational unit down to the receiving individual.

     The Food Service Management (FSM) system is an automated means for Navy food service personnel, both afloat and ashore, to perform all administrative and record keeping functions relating to the daily operations of a dining facility. FSM provides Food Service Officers (FSO) and other personnel with an automated method of ordering food, creating menus, processing receipts, tracking inventory, generating recipes and menus, and other functions associated with the operation of a general mess.

     Retail Operations Management (ROM) provides an automated means for personnel, both afloat and ashore, to perform all functions relating to daily operations of the Navy Ship’s Store. ROM provides for automated data backups and catalog updates, and eliminates the use of floppy disks and sending files via e-mail. The updated system includes enhanced item breakout and receiving capabilities, and provides the ability to view and reprint transactions from previous accounting periods. Many other functions associated with the operation of a ship’s store have been automated or enhanced with the new ROM system.